this this idea of using regulation and
Global laws in order to impose uh on
weaker States is completely you can see
it now there is there it's the template
was set and it's been a process of
establishing through the offices of
these International institutions a a
world which would be governed centrally
that strip you or me and anybody in this
room of any actual rights and suddenly
suddenly the state tells you it is
unconstitutional
but we'll do it anyway and the reason
why is because there's a there's a
there's a scientific body of opinion
that says that you ought to have drugs
uh yes and a scientific body of opinion
never says you ought yeah as soon as
someone says that the science says you
ought they made the leap from is to Art
and Science concentrates on is not on
Art and so the idea that you can somehow
blindly follow the science and also that
you're moral by doing so is about the
most anti-scientific proposition that
there could be
[Music]
thank you
big government continues to spend
borrowed money inflation continues to
swell dragging down our economy and the
stock market has entered bear territory
so what's your plan are your assets
Diversified I'm Phillip Patrick precious
metal specialist for the Birch gold
group for nearly 20 years we've helped
Americans diversify into gold and we can
help you too did you know you can own
physical gold and silver in a tax
sheltered account we can help you
transfer an IRA or 401K tied to stocks
into an IRA in Gold if you're skeptical
about the trajectory of the economy in
the US dollar then text Jordan to 989898
Birch gold group will send you a free
info kit on securing your savings with
gold with thousands of satisfied
customers five star reviews and an A
plus rating with the Better Business
Bureau we take Precious Metals seriously
text Jordan to 989898 for your free in
info kit
hello everyone
I'm talking today with Alex story
born in France to an English academic
Professor Jonathan's story and an
Austrian artist Heidi Alex grew up in
Fontainebleau France
where he was expelled from three schools
for being turbulent
he was then introduced to rowing by his
father to get some discipline
Alex left home at 17 moved to the United
Kingdom to pursue his rowing Ambitions
and was an Olympian in 1996 and a
competitor in the world championship in
192 94 95 and 97 were replaced in the
top ranks and held the world record from
98 for several decades
Alex was then accepted at Cambridge to
study modern and medieval languages he
stood for parliamentary office in 2005
2010 and 2015 in the poorest parts of
the UK
and won the right to become a member of
the European Parliament for Yorkshire
and the Humber in 2016. although he
didn't take the seat
he attended the MBA program at judge
business school in 2014 to 2016 at
Cambridge and currently Works in finance
as head of sales at a U.S broker
Alex also started writing publicly in
the aftermath of the black lives matter
movement during the covid lockdowns and
publishes weekly in the UK and U.S press
for the express the critics spectator
Country Squire magazine National Review
and American greatness
today we're going to talk about a
variety of topics including Karl Marx
and John Maynard Keynes
Charles Darwin
and uh Thomas Malthus who originated the
hypothesis that biological
political act biologically minded
political actors used to justify the
claim that
we are suffering from an excess of
population
and so
while the way we go with that discussion
so very nice to meet you and I'm looking
forward to our conversation it's my
pleasure so
we talked a little bit about where we
might want to start if you had a bit of
a biographical account that will lead us
into the topic of today so I'm going to
turn it over to you yeah
um so I'm a father for my first son has
Down syndrome
uh when something like that happens uh
things happen and um use the world is
revealed in a slightly different way
when Joshua was born and uh we took him
home the initial question that anybody
and everybody asked was didn't you know
and initially I just said well we didn't
know
but it kept coming back and back and
back
and then eventually I just thought what
are you saying
if we had known what would you what do
you think we ought to have done and
essentially what they were saying is
it's unusual to have a a Downs baby
of course if you had known you would
have had an abortion or you'd have had
aborted the baby that's the that's the
thinking process
and um obviously accidents do happen but
accidents sometimes can be very good for
somebody in the sense that uh Joshua I
think may be a much much better person
than I was before
simply because
um uh I realized that in that day on the
day that I learned this um about his
condition
I
thought the most important thing is
living
and life and it doesn't matter whether
he goes to Cambridge or not and it
doesn't matter whether he can speak uh a
few languages and or any of that
actually uh became irrelevant
and as my wife was crying she discovered
this I tried to not cry because I I am
the man of the family so it's really
important that I don't and I stay stoic
about these things but I said to her
look he he's not going to be very good
at maths he's going to be like his dad
he's going to be quite clumpy clumsy
like his dad there's all things like his
dad that he's going to be we will love
him and I think that really brought our
relationship even closer
and so
this discovery that suddenly my son was
the subject of speculation about whether
he ought to remain alive or not made me
think very very profoundly in my view
where perhaps not profoundly because I'm
thinking it felt profound right right
right because I had to really go into
the nooks and crannies of the thinking
process
so
um this thing this question which keeps
coming back even now
um I think was the seed of some kind of
thought process that started and that
led me to the field of eugenics and the
study of eugenics or at least trying to
understand where this ideology comes
from well you said you said that
one of the consequences of Joshua's
birth is that you became a better person
yeah and that your relationship with
your wife deepened yeah and you
mentioned that that was the benefit of
the of the trouble let's say or the
unexpected occurrence and so in what way
do you think
more particularly in what way do you
think
having had this experience having had
your son has made you a better person
and why specifically do you do you see
that it's deepened your relationship
with your wife uh because suddenly I had
to man up and I had to take
responsibility and I had to I had to be
there for her you know for her in a way
that was different than before
absolutely so why what made it different
well because we were both together
and this was our family that we that we
we were building and uh everybody in
that family would be would be my
responsibility and um so it was just
something like the determination to take
on a joint challenge exactly and uh
actually uh uh when I heard that
sometimes uh men leave uh their wives
because of a birth like that I was
appalled but also I thought I'm gonna
I'm not going to be like that I will be
something I'll be somebody else
um and so my life up to them had been
relatively Carefree you know ah yeah I I
was also extremely lucky because I
fell in love with my wife on the day I
met her and I married her just a few
weeks later
um and so how long had you been married
before the uh not not very long uh we we
were married perhaps a year and a half I
see so this in some sense was the first
significant joint challenge that or
challenge that you had well actually
um actually
the first one was the discovery that I
knew nothing about a lot when she had a
a miscarriage it was complete she had to
uh and I just stood helpless when she
was screaming in pain and I wasn't
really sure what to do and I couldn't I
felt and I realized how little I knew
about things and um
I had no idea about what to do when I
apart from
trying to say empty words you know to
try and uh so you felt at that point
that there was something missing from
the way you were looking at the world no
no it's just that I I was my point is
simply that um when my wife and I tried
to have a child the first two were
miscarriages and I just I realized how
little I I knew and how uh how uh
helpless I was to help her and so when
Joshua was born the third verse
um I was determined to be a good
old-fashioned old-school father and I
thought that that was much much more
important than what people thought about
me or my political views or anything
else
but I think it did determine a great
deal about how what I became afterwards
and and so when you said you wanted to
become an old-fashioned old-school
father as a consequence of this uh
uh challenge
what how did that manifest itself to you
what what was it you said you struggled
to take on more responsibility and you
made that clear to your wife yeah and
you also regard the decision to take on
that responsibility as something that
was transformative morally but also
intellectually which is what we're going
to get into and what did it mean to you
to become an old-fashioned old-school
father as opposed to let's say as
opposed to what
well by that I mean the the thing that
did rescue me was Sports uh I got kicked
out of a few schools uh mainly because
it was always challenging Authority and
I think if you speak to a lot of my
peers in fact one of a friend of mine
David I won't say a surname because uh
I'd be upset if I if I tell you but uh I
was with his son and um his son asked a
question about me and we been drinking a
lot of really good wine at the time
um and David just said
Alex is just unmanageable and I think
that this is this is something that had
limited to all into lots of problems at
school and
um my father did the old-fashioned scene
of saying you need some boundaries you
need a routine you need to be able to
work through a process in order to go
from A to B you need to be able to
become good at something right so so the
adoption of a disciplinary framework
exactly and so and and Rowing is brutal
in that sense I mean we don't run into
one another but we lift a lot of Weights
we train two or three times a day it's
complete and utter dedication and this
is you know once you once you get onto
that treadmill what happens is that your
your body changes very quickly uh your
the perception of yourself changes as
well you become big and strong and fit
and also because you you don't do any of
the things that um your peers might be
doing such as taking drugs or drinking
uh wine or getting drunk at parties all
of this is uh all these landmines are
avoided so why why did you do it if you
were unmanageable and you were a
discipline problem in school why were
you willing to subjugate yourself to the
discipline of rowing and because of
Glory
and I think glory is important and I
think we live in a in a glory free world
in fact when um when the where the
Queen's passing what was interesting was
suddenly that we started to hear
beautiful and Sublime language again and
it's in contrast to the very clunky
bureaucratic language that we now hear
more and more this idea of Glory for me
has always mattered so when so when
you're when your father proposed the
rowing as a as an option were you
familiar with it at all no no not really
no in fact I was surprised that my
father had been a rower but then it
turns out that my grandfather was a row
as well and it also turns out that story
is a is a Norwegian name s-t-o-r means
big in Norwegian and I'm six foot eight
and we have uh Norwegian Origins and I
think if you trace the story family back
we are Vikings so I think we were always
boat people
but uh no well it's quite a transition
to go from somebody who's making trouble
like that to someone who's disciplined
and athletic and you said so how did you
how did you perceive the opportunity for
what you call Glory like how why did
that beckon to you do you think and was
it related to in some ways to that
impulse that had driven you to cause
trouble to begin with maybe I go into
trouble very often in I got into fights
for a lot
um and um I think the idea of being
physically strong mattered to me at the
time and it's something that I could
control I was impatient in certain
things but I like the idea of of feeling
myself grow into a man because I started
at the age of 13 14 and that transition
uh you know I was six foot
I was six foot when I was 12. and so I
going to the gym in fact spending some
time with my dad at the gym was
important
um so all of this was um was not
subjugation it was the desire to do it
it was this desire to be strong and it
was desired to push myself and to prove
to others that that
um child that was always in trouble
could become something much greater hey
guys producer Colton from the daily wire
here getting a good night's sleep is one
of the most important things you can do
for your health just like your diet and
exercise routine are unique to your
body's needs so are your sleeping habits
that's why Helix sleep provides tailored
mattresses based on your unique sleep
preferences the Helix lineup includes 14
mattresses each design for specific
sleep positions and preferences side
sleeper models with memory foam layers
offer optimal pressure relief stomach
and back sleeper models feature a more
responsive foam to cradle and support
your body plus Helix mattresses offer
enhanced cooling features to keep you
from overheating at Night Don't
compromise on Comfort take the Helix
sleep quiz and find your perfect
mattress in under two minutes Helix
mattress ships straight to your door
free of charge try it for 100 nights
risk-free go to helixsleep.com Jordan
take the Helix sleep quiz and get up to
200 off your mattress order plus two
free pillows that's Helix sleep.com
Jordan for 200 off all mattress orders
and two free pillows
yeah well it's a very it's a lovely way
of conceptualizing the idea of the
regulation of aggression so to speak
because generally in our culture we
presume that that a child's
self-expression is limited in some sense
by force by the external world and so
that there's an intrinsic conflict
between the motivational impulses of the
child on the hedonistic front let's say
and also in relationship to aggression
and the force that Society applies to
inhibit that but it's a much better idea
to conceptualize that in the optimal
sense as a kind of integration rather
than as a kind of suppression and so you
could say if you were a child you were
physically larger and so that is one of
the predispositions to a more that is
one of the factors that predisposes to a
more aggressive temperament because if
you're aggressive and little you tend to
get pounded flat but if you're
aggressive and big you tend to be more
Victorious and so it maintains itself
but but then you might say well what do
you do in the in in the situation
wherever you you have a child who's
motivated at least in part by aggressive
and competitive urges and the answer
should be that you sublimate that into
something that utilizes those
capabilities on the competitive front
let's say and but also disciplines and
harnesses them and the thing that's
interesting to me about your story is
that for some reason you laid out some
of the answer to that you were also
willing to abide by that disciplinary
routine so did you start enjoying going
to the gym rapidly like how did that all
occur the whether the gym was uh again
uh it's an accident and a happy one uh
my father walked into a French Olympic
gold medalist who'd been a fencer of all
things and a gym had opened just close
to where we lived and my father got to
speak to him and uh the the the coach
was great and he he made it great well
because he was very he was very helpful
and uh he was he also he had Olympic
gold medals around his name right he was
very very considerate
um and uh understood that there are
certain things that uh in terms of the
the the training programs were were set
and they were they were they were really
clear the uh he then he's the one
actually that um uh told my father about
the rowing clubs that I should be able
that I should I should join so there was
this this fatherly uh
um
nature to the to the uh to the coach and
also it enabled me to spend some time
with my father because my father was an
academic and um at insead and he would
have worked 16 to 18 hour days uh and he
was always writing and in those days
smoking smoking the pipe in his office
um but um
uh so you had some good paternal Role
Models both in your father especially in
relationship to the rowing and to his
encouragement of you but also with
regard to this coach and then so then it
also that seems to indicate to me too
that when you decided to take on the
challenge jointly with your wife and you
because you mentioned that you wanted to
be uh an old school father that you
already had a model for what that might
look like in mind in in some deep sense
because being socialized optimally when
you were a teenager even under
relatively you know fraught conditions
given the behavioral issues at that
point but what's interesting is um when
uh when people talk about privilege uh I
I do claim that I have privilege and my
privilege is that uh my parents are
still together and that the the the the
rock on which the story family was built
was solid
um and that's something that I think is
is crucial
um when I was politicking in northern
England uh in Wakefield for instance
most of the trouble that you could see
stemmed from the fact that lots of boys
and girls had no
uh Father Figure anywhere near the house
right
um and this is uh one of the things that
we might be able to cover later but um
there's a strong Marxist tendency uh
what we're witnessing is the
implementation of marxist policies if
you read Das Capitan sorry if you read
The Communist Manifesto the most
important point in the book
is the destruction of the family it's
the number one thing of the book Nothing
Else Matters as much as that and that's
standing in the way of the establishment
of the Communist Utopia exactly but it's
it's the it's it's uh the destruction of
the family
uh as Mark says it is important because
it means we want people to have no past
we don't want traditions we don't want
people to be able to remember certain
things because when you obliterate the
Traditions to rebuild to build the man
of the future I mean Mao did that during
the cultural revolution when he had his
gang of young people go around and
Destroy well a tremendous amount of of
of of China's immense past in an attempt
to wipe the Slate clean which meant
wiping a lot of people off the Slate by
the way to wipe the Slate clean so that
the new utopian man could be built yeah
and that that's also allied with that
modern notion of radical social
constructivism which is that we're only
what our socialization makes of us
there's no intrinsic nature and so the
idea for example that there might be a
uh what there might be multiple reasons
for the absolute necessity of the
nuclear family as the Bedrock to Civil
Society that's just an arbitrary
supposition as far as the marxists and
the construct radical constructivists
are concerned yeah and so yeah that's so
I mean that we saw in the black lives
matter Manifesto that's the the key
point was the destruction of the western
uh family structure uh but um so my
privilege is if I have any uh is um that
my parents were there uh and it wasn't
always easy because in those days
um when you were kicked out of school
there was a 1920s style punishment that
awaited me I mean
uh at home yeah it was pretty scary and
I remember uh because in those days it
was just one phone and we had some
gravel in front of the house and me
coming back knowing that um
I'd misbehaved
the teachers had already called saying I
wouldn't be welcome back at the school
and then I heard my mother pick up the
phone dial my my father's office she
spoke quietly and I could hear on the
first floor my father shouting down
and that was petrified why do you think
you have a positive attitude towards
your parents given that they were
because you could make a case that you
know the school you had multiple
disagreements with the school and it's
an open question in such cases whether
it's the school's fault for being
arbitrary and not dealing with you
properly or if it's a consequence of
your misbehavior and they report you to
your parents your parents don't take
your side precisely or that's one way of
looking at it there's a there's
punishment associated with that and some
fear but you speak of your parents with
respect and so why is that why why do
you think that despite your fear uh uh
as a consequence of the apprehension of
the consequences of your misbehavior you
still have this overlying sense of the
support and integrity of your parents
well that's big because I think they
were right
uh I accept that I try I behave badly I
I don't blame the school and I don't
blame my parents uh I blame my own uh
behavior and I think one of the
interesting things about the life we
live in is that um the person who takes
responsibility for his action is always
more a more pleasant to meet than
somebody who keeps blaming somebody else
for his uh for his worries oh it's also
hard to change other people exactly and
it's but it's also easier to blame
somebody else and I think the
introspection
um and this is the the
um the sense of self-discovery you know
questioning what you've done and
questioning how you did it and you know
what impact you might have had through
your words and your actions onto others
I think is is a crucial aspect of
humanity so that's that's the confession
that's the prerequisite for Redemption
and atonement fundamentally well it is I
mean that's the uh you know it's it's
you have to know what you did wrong and
you have come to terms with it because
how are you going to change it otherwise
exactly and you have figured exactly
what you did wrong and then you figure
out how how you might change that if you
could and then you have to be willing to
when when you started rowing when you
started to discipline yourself
were you also do you think attempting to
atone for your misbehavior were those
things Tangled together no I had um uh
there's a very romantic side to the way
I look at the world so
um I'll give you an example I I I had a
job interview
when I was much younger and the person
asked so where do you what would you
really like to be and I said is there a
real question the guy goes yeah I said I
would love to be a knight on a white
horse with a shining armor rescuing how
old were you I was about 25. oh rescuing
rescuing damsels and uh in distress
so I didn't get the job uh Spencer
but uh I just thought I'd let it rip I'm
just I don't need to be to be where do
you think that image came from for you
um I don't know it's an interesting one
I mean I I started reading a lot about
uh medieval history and the more I do uh
read about medieval history the the more
intricate and beautiful it becomes
because there are lots and lots of
things in the tapestry of history that
are worth looking at and so it's not
just that once you once you get involved
in um in that kind of uh of of universe
it drags you all the way to the to the
um to the beginning of time in a way
because you keep thinking that that um
one occurrence in let's say 1190 was
actually based on a presupposition on a
on a on a philosophy for 500 years
before and then you start to to to dig
into this really really incredibly rich
soil that's our history yeah well you
can see the lingering attraction of such
things in the popular in the grip of the
popular imagination by well you could
say the Harry Potter series which has a
real medieval element to it and also by
a series like the Lord of the Rings or
The Hobbit and I mean that's a
fantastically popular modern myth and
it's set in a medieval ethos in some
sense and that's also associated with
that that idea you had that seemed
attractive to you about Glory which is
also kind of an anachronistic concept
well it's it's his but I think um I
don't know if it is in fact anachronism
is an interesting word that we if we
have time we could perhaps um yeah it
wasn't the criticism just a reservation
no no no but I mean uh but it's an
interesting term but because we're the
Queen's passing all those people who
were saying that the monarchy was an
anachronist an anachronism are now
proven completely wrong it's it's not an
anachronism the simple reason that it
lives it lives its Dynamic it grows she
helped ensure that it didn't become a
mere anachronism exactly but the point
is that that's what families do and of
course the monarchy has a very simple uh
is a very simple concept to to
understand my son Josh understood that
when she died Charles would become uh
King if you try to explain the French
Constitution to him you'd find it much
more difficult right right so she
embodies something that Echoes very
deeply for everyone well absolutely and
it's a very simple
she's the top of the family That's
essential or she's the mate she was The
Matriarch right and uh a lot of people
a very small number of people have been
uh talking about the demise the eventual
demise of of the monarchy
um but actually you realize that the
their support is very very very thin and
what you realize it's not just on this
topic it's on every single topic that
they push through and the reason for
this is in my view is the the fact that
it's not anchored in anything it's
anchored in theories and theories they
then try to impose these uh these
theories on a very complex reality
they're always wrong because the one
thing that they don't do is try to
understand the humanity well that's why
they deny that the a Priory structures
exist because that enables them to
remain invisible you know if I start
with the presupposition that you and
your family are nothing but
uh what would you call a
relativistic manifestation of the
arbitrary social contract then there is
nothing to understand you can just
replace that with another arbitrary
construct and the the danger in that I
would say apart from the fact that it's
just it's incorrect from on multiple
grounds including biological grounds but
and much more than that but it also
justifies your use of power and that
might be the underlying it's so
interesting because the Marxist types
tend to claim that power motivates
everything and I always think of that as
more of a confession as an observation
it's like well your ideology sets you up
such that you're tempted constantly to
use power because you believe that
people are infinitely malleable and they
should be made over in the image of your
ideology and since you believe that
there's nothing but power that opens up
the door for you to use power to obtain
your whatever it is you're attempting to
do hypothetical Utopia usually results
in the destruction of many people
instead which indicates to me that maybe
that was the point to begin with so okay
so back if you don't mind back back to
your son you said and we delved into
that quite deeply that his birth and
your decision to take responsibility for
that which I suppose was being a knight
on a white horse for a damsel in
distress let's say
um also catalyze on an intellectual
interest and you started becoming
interested in Eugenics because of the
comments that people were making to you
obliquely about why your son was let's
say allowed to be born and so maybe we
could track that a little bit Yeah so
um I think the
I think the most shocking part of that
was when I was walking with my son it
was only two very small
and this woman came along and she said
you know that your son will be a burden
on the state oh yes
and um yeah well you know when the Nazis
started there before they launched their
full-scale genocidal movements they
started to clean up the mental
institutions and the old folks homes and
so forth any people who were in
long-term care let's say who were a
burden on the state and they definitely
regarded them as a burden on the state
and they further pushed forward their
pre-genocidal Movement by making the
case that well not only were these
people a non-productive burden but
their quality of life was so low that it
was actually more merciful to dispense
with them altogether and and that really
in a very serious way went out of hand
very very rapidly people don't
understand the Genesis of these sorts of
movements but that like a lot of the
Nazi eradication
policies had their origin in public
health policy this is quite frightening
and it's interesting to realize that uh
the the Germans in fact uh considered it
a um if I'm correct uh considered it the
Eugenics as a medical as a miracle um
solution and that was in 1913s so I
think the law was passed in 1913 so way
before the the second world war so this
concept was already there and that says
and this is um the the interesting thing
that we we witness at the moment and I
think that's the reason why the my son's
Down syndrome I think has been such an
interesting catalyst is the fact that we
seem to live in an era where our Bettors
and leaders whether they're political or
corporate are
increasingly anti-human
and you initially you wreck it's a bit
like the glitch in The Matrix you you
see something
you wake you you wake up a little bit
and then you keep pulling on that string
and then you suddenly realize that there
is this massive effort to try and
depopulate the world you know Freud
Freud when Freud uh described what came
to be known as Freudian slips that was
exactly the observation he made he said
you listen to someone talk and there'll
be a disjunction in their speech
something will emerge right if they say
a non-sequitur or they make a joke
that's slightly off kilter and there's
some emotional awkwardness there's
something that just doesn't flow and
Freud and you learned that behind that
there was a an assemblage of complex
sub-personalities that in some sense
part of them had grip control of the
speech flow for a moment and then if you
delved into that you'd start to see all
sorts of unresolved conflicts and
pathologies that characterize the per
the person's personality and so that's
all there in a Freudian slip and and
people will reveal themselves in some
sense and you said when you were taking
your son for a walk this woman it was a
woman who came up to you and said that
he would be a burden on the state it's
like you know what happens is the
Persona Falls in a situation like that
and you see something utterly monstrous
reveal itself and then it snaps shut
again and generally what people will do
is they'll just
they'll just jump over that and continue
on but you were you weren't able to do
that because you had this relationship
because it because uh I think the reason
why I wasn't able to to move away from
it and ignore is because it was a daily
occurrence I mean she was she was the
worst one but um but again this idea of
didn't you know it kept becoming a
heavier and heavier sentence for me to
hear and to carrying because because I
kept thinking
you are asking me whether I should have
we should have aborted our son before we
even gave him a chance to live I mean
that's the right yeah and you had his
like living breathing reality right
there to contemplate while that was
occurring no I noticed when my when my
wife had when we had little kids uh I
lived in Boston and when I was in Boston
with my wife we were the youngest
parents we knew with the oldest kids and
we weren't young my wife and I didn't
start having kids until our late 20s
right and so we were already pushing the
envelope in some sense but in that
community at that time we were still the
youngest parents with the oldest kids
and one of the things I really noticed
was that my wife was often not treated
well especially at restaurants but often
shops too when she entered the shops
with our little kids and our little kids
were very well behaved and and we had
helped them learn how to act properly
let's say in a restaurant they didn't
cause trouble but they weren't treated
well and I thought there's something
very very pathological going on here
because there's my wife and she's a
perfectly pleasant person although she
has a bite and that she has these
children they're very cute and they're
well behaved and yet when she goes into
a social situation with them she's
immediately treated like a second class
person and she's treated like she in
some sense she and the kids have no
right to be there and I thought that's a
hell of a way to treat a young woman
with children it's it's it's not only
wrong it's the opposite of what it
should be and that there's something
very dark lurking under there which is
also associated with the reasons why we
were the youngest parents with the
oldest kids that's part of that
anti-human proclivity that you were that
you were uh that you were outlining so
you were experiencing this you said on a
relatively daily basis yeah because
that's a lot in particular because uh
because it was obvious uh interestingly
enough I couldn't see that he had Downs
right so I I just was a the proud father
of a good looking child as I saw it uh
and I asked my friends but can you see
that he has down and they went uh yeah
oh see because I can't see it
and they used to think it was slightly
mad or right denial you know but it
wasn't it wasn't it wasn't it was just
something I can't see it really it's
weird
okay so how do you how do you how do you
and how did you account for that I mean
obviously and I just thought he was a he
was I said to uh my wife Nadine who has
to burn me so she's she's a saint really
uh she I said so you know he's going to
be the best looking Downs there's ever
been
it's going to be a good looking one it's
going to look just like me and she
obviously cried she didn't laugh I was
hoping to try and make a laugh so you
saw that you were able to see the person
behind the syndrome let's say well I was
just
but I I don't know I mean I I it's I
knew and I thought actually it's amazing
oh he's crazy he looks good he's very
strong he's big and but he's fine uh but
yes but I I couldn't I couldn't read and
I can't really explain why
um or exactly why I couldn't see it but
it was just
an observation and I used to you know by
when I used to ask my friends they they
probably thought I was a bit I was
perhaps denial or if you know if you're
a psychiatrist you might you might go
deeper into it but I just how long after
he was born do you say that you loved
him oh but as soon as I saw him
so it's interesting that you were able
to manage that
despite the challenge let's say yeah
so and I mean it seems to me that that's
something that you're relating is that
you had a relationship with your son
immediately that superseded the
condition yeah and then and you could
think of that as a form of blindness
that's one way of thinking about it but
I've often thought about this with
children you know because everyone
thinks their child is special and of
course there's millions of children and
you don't necessarily think that every
child that you encounter on the street
is special
and then you might say well are you
blind about your child or are you blind
to every other child and I would say
it's the second that's true is that you
can actually see your children but you
don't have enough mental energy or maybe
enough breadth of character to see all
other children and so maybe I've thought
too that love in some sense is the grace
of God you know is that if if you're in
a relationship with someone that's
characterized by love
you see each other in some deep sense
and you can't see other people like that
because you don't have the ability but
it's not like the love is a delusion
it's the opposite of it exactly and
that's the interesting thing perhaps is
um the the negation of Love by you know
imposing and very smart people who tell
you that love is nothing but a chemical
yeah right right well that's yeah and so
and so and then and it produces a
delusion it's a hell of a way to look at
things I know and of course but they're
robbing people of is the most beautiful
thing which is uh the the ability to
emote for somebody else and to invest
yourself in something else well and also
to live in that condition I mean if
you're if you're around someone that you
love and that love defines the
relationship there isn't any better
thing you can do and so then to minimize
that to call it some sort of biological
or biochemical aberration which is the
worst form of unconscionable
reductionism is to reduce the highest
possible goal to something that it's
nothing but like a trivial consequence
and some underlying materiality it's
appalling and it's really demoralizing
well yeah because the the the thing that
elevates everybody uh that enables you
to sacrifice for for the greater you
know good of uh your family or whatever
it is is that notion of love it's it's
what gives you
the um the the the ambition it gives you
the motivation to do greater things
uh and and
um the I
once you start to get into that thinking
process you realize just how established
in uh in in our institutions this idea
of lack of Love uh uh has has become
designed for anyone to sell anywhere
Shopify gives entrepreneurs the
resources once reserved for big business
and all-in-one e-commerce platform
Shopify helps business owners achieve
independence by making it easier to
start run and grow your online
storefront Shopify reduces the barriers
to business ownership by making good
e-commerce more accessible and intuitive
Shopify helps you to find customers and
drive sales wherever you are online
Market your business with built-in tools
for creation execution and Analysis
manage orders shipping and payments and
gain the insights you need to scale your
business dedicated to empowering
independent business owners everywhere
millions of successful Brands trust
Shopify to sell ship and process
payments anywhere get started by
building and customizing your online
store no coding or design experience
required go to shopify.com jbp for a
free 14-day trial and get full access to
shopify's entire Suite features start
selling on Shopify today go to shop
buffy.com jbp right now that's
shopify.com jbp
and so and I think that's the that's
again it's the it's the dial of the
human being and it's um you know it's
the Heart of Stone versus the heart of
Flesh you in order to be a good human
being you don't go through a tick box
exercise you have to be you have to
emote for the other person and there's
this reciprocity uh is essentially has
been dismantled it's no longer
you know it's like you love your
neighbor as you love yourself uh you you
um you treat everybody equally everybody
has a worth now all of these things as a
a reciprocal and I think that's the
beauty of the old religion that we've
lost
um the the new religion uh which I know
that just just this is a bit of a
sidebar but not really so there's a
Dutch primatologist Francis dewal who's
a brilliant primatologist and along with
Richard rangham those are probably the
two top primatologists in the world and
rangham has been studying chimpanzee
behavior for decades at the arnham zoo
and also in the wild
and there's this idea
I had a graduate student once who uh
who's now business calling of mine very
smart guy doesn't not doesn't say much
but when he says something he's thought
about it for like 10 years and he thinks
all the way to the bottom because he's
also an engineer and he told me once
that I should stop using the term
dominance hierarchy and and it took me
quite a back because
I I I I
understand and believe that social
animals organize themselves into
hierarchical structures and I'd never
really considered the implications of
the term dominance hierarchy and he said
there's a Marxist element to that
terminology that you're not taking into
account and I said well what do you mean
he said well it's predicated on the idea
that the fundamental
process that arranges the hierarchies of
social order is the expression of power
and I thought oh my God that's true I'd
have thought really that that strain of
Marxism had invaded biology to such a
degree that that became an axiomatic
presumption it was really shocking to me
and then I started talking about
hierarchies of competence and more
recently of hierarchies of of voluntary
play now dewal and and this isn't just
an arbitrary
like re-configuring of my thought
it was a man named Jacques pankset who
studied play behavior in rats and he
showed quite clearly that if you paired
juvenile rats together and allowed them
to play because they wrestle that in the
first Contact the bigger rat could win
over the smaller rat 10 weight Advantage
would be enough to guarantee Victory so
if you just studied One play about you
could derive the conclusion that the
bigger stronger and more dominant animal
won and the play was based on domination
but he paired them together repeatedly
and this is key to the issue of
reciprocity he paired them together
repeatedly and and rats live in social
groups so they interact repeatedly
once they have established that initial
hierarchy of of uh ability let's say in
the wrestling ring it's incumbent on the
little route to invite the big rat to
play
but the big rat if the big rat doesn't
let the little rat win at least 30
percent of the time across repeated
bouts even though he could win every
single time if he doesn't allow the
little rat to win 30 of the time the
little route will stop asking him to
play that's a stunningly brilliant
observation and then DeWalt has shown
you know you have this notion of the uh
Alpha chimp right and everybody has kind
of a creature in their mind of the alpha
chimp it's like chest bumping playground
bully Thug Rises to the top has
preferential sexual access and thus is
more reproductively fit and dewal has
taken that idea completely apart it's
simply not true the first thing he's
demonstrated or one of the things he's
demonstrated is that
some chimps do rise to positions of
sexual predominance and social Authority
through the use of physical intimidation
but they tend to have short-lived rules
their troops tend to be very fractious
and emotionally unstable and Rife with
conflict and they tend to meet a very
sudden and violent end because if they
ever weaken then two of The Chimps that
they've intimidated will band together
and tear them into pieces and he's
documented that quite continually and
then he showed too that in many of the
troops that he studied sometimes the
smallest male has the highest social
status particularly if he's extremely
good at reciprocal interactions and
peacemaking and he showed that these
stable Alphas are the most reciprocal
animals in the troop male or female and
that they cultivate reciprocal social
relationships and mutual grooming
constantly and track their friendship
networks and are extremely reciprocal
and so dewal has shown like panccept did
that the true basis of stable social
organization is um
is reciprocity yeah fundamentally and
consent as well well it's voluntary yeah
exactly and that's voluntary risk
process and this this may if we go back
to sports that's the voluntary
um uh investings investment of your life
in a in a discipline it's voluntary you
want to do it and because you think you
can get something out of it but the
consent bid
is an interesting one because
we we live in an era of Revelation in my
view things have happened where suddenly
you know we've opened a world for those
students for those who want to see uh
that
the idea that we were living in a uh on
in a system where consent had needed to
be sought actually has been dismantled
uh how did we see it now in the UK we
had brexit for instance
it took six years we still have these
backlaws but what you see is more and
more people
um on the remain side of the argument
denying that the vote nearly took place
or attacking those people who voted in
the wrong way the idea the notion that
you should seek consent or consensus is
complete
and the reason for this is because as we
said Humanity uh if you think about this
um uh the the the the
uh this anti-human nature you can say my
opinion's worth much more than yours we
are not the same there is no reciprocity
what we know well and there's no
reciprocity if the fundamental basis is
power exactly but that's what that's the
interesting thing about the uh the alpha
male because uh I completely see and I
think most of us see that um without
consent there can be no stability you
cannot you know you cannot create
stability out of a Perpetual Warfare but
the thing about Perpetual Warfare is
that it enables uh dilettants to to
think that something is changing so in
other words they require Discord in
order to have meaning for themselves so
they so hatred is a powerful uh emotion
that replaces everything that's the
that's that's in my view one of the
things that we're witnessing at the
moment where you have one group that's
hoping it doesn't matter how how many
they are will represent what the numbers
they represent but they are quite happy
to impose their worldview because
they're righteous so you're so you're
serious something like
the the generation of chaos produces a
landscape where the narcissists are more
likely to thrive it's something like
that yeah because it's it's a question
of self-importance I I I asked my wife
what uh because she's from East Germany
and East Germany was an extremely
unpleasant Place yeah one-third of the
people there were government informers I
know and uh but we we don't have the
time to go through it today but some of
the stories that uh her parents my
parents-in-law told me were were quite
um uh interesting but the but what she
said is
um I
I just want stability in other words I
don't want Perpetual Revolution I want
stability and if you think about
societies
most people
and you know most of us here want
stability and yet what we keep being
sold is change changes absence changes
the only consonant you need to go for
change change change and the faster the
better yeah especially in the face of an
emergency well exactly and so so what
what does that lead to it leads to a
confusion it can only lead to confusion
if the one thing that you go for is
change and if you completely disregard
stability stability whether it's in in
society or in the family within the
family
setup is the the it's the thing on which
you build everything else without it's
even the thing within which so you know
there are two fundamental personality
traits so there's five Dimensions but
they Clump and one Clump is stability
and the other Clump is plasticity and
people are higher in plasticity tend to
be the entrepreneurs and the artists and
the entertainers and so they are agents
of transformation but both of those
personality elements working in tandem
are necessary for let's call it the most
stable solution to emerge across the
longest span of time and so you have
the proper elements of ordered stability
with an interleaving of necessary
transformation as the environment
transforms your dreams sort of do this
so imagine that
during the day when you're conscious and
awake the parts of your brain that are
responsible for that operation are
imposing a stable order on the world
despite its aberrations because of
course you don't know everything so you
don't map everything accurately there's
another part of your brain that sort of
keeps track of the things that don't fit
in and then when you go to sleep at
night you become more plastic and your
brain starts to try to make order and
sense out of the things that don't fit
in and the monstrosity of your dreams
and the what would you call it the uh
the uh the
um
the cherubic and monstrosity like
imagery and dreams is an attempt to
aggregate those aberrations and to start
feeding updates slowly into the system
that regulates stability they have
artificial intelligence Engineers have
found too that in order to build a
system of apprehension that doesn't
collapse you need part of the system to
impose something approximating
regularity and then you need a separate
system to keep track of deviations and
slowly update the first system because
otherwise it will precipitously collapse
and so there's a balance and here's
another this is something very cool too
so imagine that there is a balance that
needs to be maintained constantly
between the forces of stability and the
forces of transformation and then it's
an open question how much stability you
need and how much transformation because
it depends to some degree on how rapidly
things are changing around you and so it
moves with the situation and so you need
to be able to mark the shifting boundary
well one hypothesis that I think is a
very good hypothesis is that
the spirit of play emerges when the
balance between stability and
transformation is attained properly so
imagine so if you're in a team yeah or
you're even competing against yourself
you're pushing yourself to the edge of
transformation right and if if you're
playing properly you're pushing yourself
so you're transforming as rapidly as you
can without exhausting or undermining
yourself and that manifests itself as a
sense of deep and maybe as the sense of
deep engagement that you found when you
decided to start rowing instead of
misbehaving yeah right so you you hit a
you hit that point of optimal play that
also catalyzed your development and you
could say that play is reciprocal in the
most fundamental sense
and we to play with other people
or to play against yourself in some
sense and the sense of meaning that
emerges is a signal that you've balanced
the necessity for transformation with
the necessity for stability it's a
lovely idea right because it gives some
real deep grounding to the notion of
existential meaning yeah and I think
also in order to
the the
stability presupposes something else as
well so you you the modulation the the
way that things modulate in other words
you've got new technologies new
technologies don't necessarily mean that
we as human beings are better or worse
but we have more yeah we have expands
for trouble and opportunity so it's not
technology is obviously changes all the
time we can see it but actually the
reason why you and I can read
um The Odyssey uh and a feel for for for
um uh for Helen and um
is that we can read a story from two or
three thousand years ago and the the the
Arc of the story Remains the Same and
the tragedies well that's sort of the
fundamental religious claim in some
sense is that the Arc of the story
Remains the Same exactly yeah and so
there's the Eternal and there's the the
ephemeral and that's that's the so what
what is immovable is the thing that I
think a lot of our leaders refuse to
accept so what they're trying so in
order to what's what presupposes
stability is the desire to keep them
something as it is it's your respect for
something if you keep selling the change
story what you're essentially saying is
that you you want to dismantle what is
there because obviously in this
particular context because it's bad well
if you're low status let's say within
the current hierarchy one medication is
to advance yourself according to the
rules of the current game
and and maybe you can't because you
can't fit in but maybe you can't because
you're unwilling to be able let's say
and then you take the path of false
presumption and that's a narcissistic
path but then your best bet under those
circumstances to destabilize things
because that way you destroy the order
that that implies that your particular
contribution or that there is a
contribution at all and and that implies
that your contribution isn't isn't
appropriate so I hadn't thought through
exactly the idea that the that the
sowing of chaos by what would you say
overvaluing transformation is another
trick of narcissists and Psychopaths and
machiavellians to gain the upper hand
but that's highly probable you know I've
seen for example I've had a lot of
demonstrations levied against me a lot
and some of them were very intense and
unpleasant like very intense and intense
and unpleasant and they were often they
were mounted Against Me by people of the
left although so that happens on the
right as well and it's happened to
people I know by by radical
right-wingers what's very interesting
for me as a clinician to observe the
people who are fomenting the uh the the
uh the protests in my case a lot of them
were female about 60 probably 70 percent
um and a lot of them were left-wing
activist types University students and
so but intermingled with those women
were a handful of men and in Toronto in
particular and in Ontario
um I I encountered a lot of uh protests
and at a number of the protests the same
men showed up and as a clinician I could
just spot who those people were
immediately like one of them for example
stood with a girl about two feet behind
me that I think it was a University of
Western Ontario it's one of the worst
protests that I was in and they had an
air horn and air horns are plenty loud
enough to damage your hearing and they
were both blowing that air horn right on
the edge of where it was damaging to me
and I looked at the guy the girl well I
thought yeah well I you know I don't
know what you're up to but he was I
could tell what sort of person he was he
was there to upset things so he could
prey on the women in the crowd who were
the protesters so he would come and
Advance himself as well I'm on your side
I'm one of you and it's like he was 100
a predator and I saw him and his ilk at
all sorts of different demonstrations
and so he's the sort of person if he's
so chaos it gives him opportunities that
he wouldn't otherwise have because he
had no competence in any real sense he
was he was a those sorts of men are so
appalling that you can hardly even
imagine what they're like unless you're
very unlucky and have had the
opportunity to get to know someone like
that so that notion that that chaos can
be sowed so the the narcissists and the
machiavellians can flourish that's
that's a very interesting idea and
highly probable Well you certainly see
it on the on the protest front so okay
so back back to your son people were
questioning the ethics of your decision
to to
continue with his life essentially yeah
and and and and also questioning you
about the blindness that you had that in
some sense enabled that and then then
you started you said that gave you an
insight into something that was deeply
anti-human going on underneath the
surface exactly and so
um uh I I like reading and so
um I read the biography of Keynes and
the biography of Keynes is all about
Keynes as The Economist there are you
know some Segways into his politics he
was liberal or labor
um certainly of the left
can you feel people in a little bit tell
us a little bit about Keynes and and the
figure and the the uh position occupies
now among economics Keynes is the is the
Cornerstone of the the Western economic
thinking
um infrastructure in a way because uh
GDP is essentially the way that the way
that we calculate our wealth in uh
across the world is an equation that he
came up with so he set the Metro yeah he
was extremely uh he was extremely
influential it was what was interesting
about Keynes is that he is the one that
negotiated
um the reparations uh that Germany had
to pay with the French after the first
world war so he was a very very
influential character already
um in the uh in the 30s and 40s he
obviously was an asset manager but he
was also very involved in politics and
in the field of um think tankery
um in other words he was very close to
Mosley interestingly enough which he was
our fascist leader and mostly had been
in the UK the fastest leader in the UK
right and he had been unsurprisingly uh
a very prominent Labor uh MP
and um he was also very interested in um
in sociology so he was he was he was
part of the Bloomsbury group that was
very close to the Fabian group and the
Fabian group became the labor research
group uh so and this is Kane specific
not mostly Keynes I'm just explain I'm
explaining the the kind of groups that
you had so so yeah Gaines was part of
the Bloomsbury group but it was very
close uh intellectually to characters
like Sydney Webb uh Beatrice Webb and
Bernard Shaw and all these all these
people
uh who were who were extremely
influential in fact the LSC is a product
of the London School of Economics yeah
exactly
um and so
when you read the book uh it's nicely
written and uh obviously a substantial
amount of research but the thing that
completely goes by the wayside
um is the most important part of what
Keynes himself believed about about
Society
and you can only see it in a in a in an
Asterix is a little asterisk and um as I
said you read the sentence and it says
you know John had to go to this place uh
and the the slight description below is
uh he went to speak to the Eugenics
society and of course that Freudian slip
exactly and and so again it's the the
glitch in the machine because you're
going hello it's 1943.
we have
a war going on with somebody who's very
very for eugenics we are at War we're
sacrificing the entire British Empire to
defeat that man and that man's
Cornerstone ideology is eugenics what is
somebody a substantial as John Maynard
Keynes doing at a Eugenics dinner
and it turns out that he was the
president of the British Eugenics
Society from 1937 to 1944
and his last speech at the golton
Institute golton being the cousin of
Darwin importantly Galton was a very
very
uh prominent Eugenics eugenicist uh that
speech he stood up and he said the most
important field of social Endeavor is
eugenics
and so so we should do a sidebar quickly
so that everybody understands what the
field of eugenics proposes and the idea
is it's an offshoot of a pathological
streak of Darwinism that claims that
it it it stems in some sense out of the
claim that this the fittest survives but
then there's a Twist on that to imply
that the fittest are therefore morally
and physically Superior in some moral
sense and then which which is not an
implication by the way of of standard
modern biological evolutionary theory
um and then more that you can identify
those who are fit let's say by looking
at those who are currently successful in
society and you can infer their moral
and physiological superiority and then
you can rank order people by that
superiority and you could improve the
race by not allowing those who were
substandard let's say to use the Nazi
terminology to multiply and that's
technically wrong from the perspective
of evolutionary biology because it's a
tenant of modern evolutionary biology
that you cannot
select for fitness
so you can select for a given attribute
and you can presume that that attribute
is associated with Fitness but you have
no there's no justification whatsoever
for that claim because what constitutes
Fitness in some real sense varies
unpredictable unpredictably
unpredictably as the underlying
landscape transforms and so there's no
basis for eugenics claims in modern in
the tenets of modern evolutionary
biology but that didn't stop
hypothetically biologically oriented
thinkers who were saying follow the
science to lay forth our Eugenics
movement that did capture much of the
left wing and the right wing in very
many ways all what from about 1890 to
about nine well till 1945 well actually
I'd go much further than that
um
Eugenics is now the
is now the core of a modern
societies I think it's Eugenics has
seeped through don't forget that Keynes
was one of the the drivers of the
formation of the United Nations
and giving the pound of Sterling's uh
Supremacy to the American by allowing
the dollar to be the only con uh the
only currency Peg to Gold uh all the
other currencies in the world would have
to translate or exchange their their
currencies into dollars and then from
dollar to gold
and that's a really important point so
in other words he was already going for
this idea of one Global government and
there are some really interesting books
uh that you can read else I'll send them
to you because they're so interesting
one of them is fabianism
um and the Empire and in there the the
the the pamphlet States very quick uh
very uh clearly we start with national
socialism we will then go to
International socialism so this idea
that you consolidate socialism at home
nationally and that's important because
the national socialists and the
international socialists the Communists
I essentially not on different sides of
the of the equation it's just a it's
just a progression one is National and
then it goes into the into into the
Internet it's a progression towards
radical centralization and exactly
predicated on the idea of implicit
superiority yeah exactly and it's it's
and but it's always done with the
imposition force is always needed and
you can see that you can read it
everything's power you know we know well
that's right and if you if you read my
income for instance what happens is that
Adolf is very very clear about his views
you use power to impose and you don't
dwell too much in the detail that's what
he says in his book he says I I don't
want to be criticized because of my
policies I just want you guys to
understand the broad picture right so in
other words it's a replica oh yeah well
and Hitler definitely led by inference
because if you look at his statements
the statements of the sort that you
described he would lay out a low
resolution vision and
um insist in some sense that other
people fill in let's call them the Gory
details no exactly and so so the the
idea when you start to think about what
it implies that booklet is so
interesting because they talk about the
idea of free trade as being an
imposition on less cultured Nations and
that book says that China will have to
uh we will have to impose free trade on
the Chinese it's 1902 at this at the
time because these people because their
culture doesn't
hasn't moved on and therefore because it
hasn't moved on it's uh it's subject to
you know darwinian uh eradication
exactly and so you've got so so the
reason why that's so important is
because if you then bring it to uh the
United Nations and what keynes's uh view
of the world was yeah so there's there's
a strange implication in that phrase
survival of the fittest yeah because in
some sense and this is this is the case
scientifically the darwinian proposition
is a tautology because it really means
those who survive survive it doesn't
mean those who survive are most fit
except in if you if you gerrymander the
meaning of the term fit and you don't
know what it means right well it changes
too yeah you know so so the way
mosquitoes solve that problem is each
mosquito there's not a lot of
variability in mosquito Behavior as a
consequence of socialization so
mosquitoes have a lot of Offspring um
you know maybe who knows how many tens
of thousands of potential Offspring per
mosquito and there's some biological
variability across the set of Offspring
and almost all of them eradicated before
they reproduce otherwise we'd be
knee-deep in mosquitoes in no time but
you can't predict a priority which of
the variants that are produced by a
given mosquito pairing are going to be
are going to survive you can't predict
that without running the process and so
you cannot again you cannot Define
what's fit before it manifests itself
and so in some sense the notion of the
notion of Fitness was a it's a bad
verbal choice because it implies is
something like moral superiority and
there's or superiority even on
biological grounds and there's no
there's no evidence for a kind of
ethical or value-laden Superior so
what's interesting about that if we
start to go deeply into this is the um
is the fact that once you once you start
to repeat that slogan uh the survival of
the fittest all sorts of politics right
all sorts of um Things become doable the
one thing that is removed is
um is the emotional aspect of humanity
because you can be cast aside because if
you don't survive as you said it's
because you're not fit and so
um and if you're not fit to survive
perhaps you shouldn't be allowed exactly
and that's what this this is what what
happens when you start looking into the
think tanks of the Fabian Society from
1884 to just and then they were
precursors to the modern socialists with
the English twist Marx is socialist
precise say they were their own brand
exactly but the but the template is the
same so Mussolini was good friends with
uh Lenin it's really important to
realize that he was the head of the uh
um uh Italian Socialist Party and then
he became a fascist because he uh he was
of the opinion as was learning that you
could use power and force to take um to
to take the the reins of uh of God
catalyze the revolution exactly and so
but Mussolini himself says it as well
take nationalism first and then
International socialism that's the way
we're going to do it and so this this
idea of using regulation and Global laws
in order to impose uh on weaker States
is completely you can see it now there
is there it's the template was set and
it's been a process of establishing
through the offices of these
International institutions a a world
which would be governed centrally
through the offices of the United
Nations or the World Health Organization
all you
all these bodies that strip you or me
and anybody in this room of any actual
rights and you could see it in places
like Austria where where the the vaccine
mandate was imposed and suddenly
suddenly the state tells you it is
unconstitutional
but we'll do it anyway and the reason
why is because there's a there's a
there's a scientific body of opinion
that says that you ought to have drugs
uh yes and a scientific body of opinion
never says you ought yeah as soon as
someone says that the science says you
ought they've made the Gap they've made
the leap from is to Art and Science
concentrates on is not on Art and so the
idea that you can somehow blindly follow
the science and also that your moral by
doing so is about the most
anti-scientific proposition that there
could be you know in that the covid
mandates as well in the in Canada have
precipitated what I think will be a
constitutional crisis there too yeah
because Trudeau is being taken to court
right now on the grounds that his travel
ban which had no scientific
justification whatsoever even by the
admission of the health personnel in
Canada that he attempted to compel to
produce a post-hoc scientific
justification found that the grounds for
his actions were so so threadbare yeah
and directed towards ensuring his
hypothetical electoral victory in the
last election that they couldn't even
fake a scientific rationale post-hoc
when they were demanded to by their
bosses yeah so but Canada is in such
rough shape conceptually at the moment
that a scandal of that nature I think a
scandal of that nature is so
Preposterous to Canadians that they
can't even apprehend it but I think the
the
what's really difficult is that these
scandals are coming thick and fast yeah
nothing changes so the the one constant
that we were talking about which has
changed the one thing that is not
changing is the fact that these
characters who are intellectually
bankrupt
um are Brazen to get out yeah well this
video might change all that as soon as
uh energy costs hit mortgage rate uh
levels in the UK then that game is going
to be up because it just won't be
sustainable but that's true and that's
why that's why the the the interesting
thing is though I mean we we probably
shouldn't spend too much time on the
political landscape in the UK because
it's complex and it's probably not that
interesting in the long term but what's
interesting here is that some big things
are happening which prove to us to The
Observers that the current the current
leadership and thought the current
leadership structure and the kind of
thought process has led to complete uh
has led us uh or has been led by people
who are constantly constantly wrong
they're wrong about everything they do
they're wrong in everything that they
say but the wrong Vision they're wrong
every strategy they're wrong in their
use of power in particular because uh
what what we've seen in Europe in Europe
over the last let's say 200 years is a
desire through the fabians it's
interesting I will I will send you that
book that's very important but fabianism
in the Empire
um what you what you see is um uh people
despising people who work for money yeah
right right people the the markets are
that's like The Dutch's not paying
attention attention to the farmers
exactly or the Trudeau government but
that's demonizing the truckers but it's
deeply set I mean this and the the
reason why the fabians decided to
permeate the institutions that's the
terminology that you you should perhaps
keep in mind when you read these books
the permeation of Institutions so that's
where the Long March for the
institutions exactly that's the idea
that's where that's development so so
it's really it's a it's a very
interesting a bit dry but it's an
interesting book
um and then suddenly what you what you
see is that they notice very quickly in
the early 1880s that the Working Man
doesn't vote for them or for their
policy right right and they're really
upset that they really like this chap
called Israeli because Disraeli was um a
a very uh very erudite smart funny kind
of the working class is intractable and
it's refusal to see its own best
interests exactly and so so that's so
that's part of the process so this they
decided we cannot win but what we can do
is become experts and through our
expertise we go through the channels and
we we enable uh politicians to implement
our policies because we will advise them
on the solutions and that's detailed out
in yeah it's in a book um
and so once you once you're once you
start to to look at these things you
realize that
uh the the enemy of uh these people is
the person that says no to them yeah so
so you need force and you need to to you
there is no consensus to be uh to be had
and therefore what we were talking about
which is this
um uh this relationship between you and
me this reciprocity this is a sign of
respect and sustainability absolutely so
so if we are lots can change technology
can change but if we as human beings
choose to accept that we are the same in
terms of value before before God if we
choose to accept that for for my actions
you might that there are certain things
that um they will have an impact on you
and vice versa then we create a society
that actually is quite uh quite stable
and worth living in if the moment you
accept the Fabian premise that there is
a small group of people who are right
and therefore the others are wrong that
is the mo that's when you start to
create a and that's justified by
reference to expertise exactly and so
there is a there is a quick quote in
that in in the book where uh one of the
fabians says we our aim is to make sure
that when the people come to the
barricades
uh to to make all the change of the
Constitutional changes so that the
moment they come to the barricades we
will be able to crush them in other
words you use con the Constitution and
the law you change them through the
experts and you strip the uh the masses
as it were of their of their frightening
power
once they get to the barricade it's too
late that's the that was the that was
the uh the idea uh that they were
developing and so all of that becomes I
think with hindsight that's the reason
why we live in this era of Revelation in
My Views so so much if you if we choose
to see what what uh you know these
discussions and the uh where these ideas
come from and really
just try to to map them on today's world
we see lots and lots of strands
uh that lead from the 1880s to 2022. do
you have any sense
you talked to me before we started the
podcast about the entanglement of Kane's
ideas with those of Marx and Darwin and
Malthus and you talked about this
profound anti-humanism that you saw
manifested say in relationship to your
personal life because of the existence
of your son now and we talked about we
we took a pathway through the notion
that
that talk down force is justified by the
existence of uh a privileged and fit
Elite with the rest of the people let's
say being in some real sense necessarily
expendable
so
I would like to know how you think that
the Marxist ideas
is the is the connection with Marxism
the notion that the masses need to be
transformed in their conscious
apprehension by the elites is that is
that the fundamental point of contact so
so uh in
um The Communist Manifesto
both by the way uh Mein Kampf and the
Communist Manifesto say the same thing
one of them is
we will lead the revolution there will
be a small group of believers who will
lead this world as or these people to
the promised land so it's again the
experts it's it's the that the reason
why Marx is part of the picture in my
view or the the kind of
uh
the the the ring as it were
um is because he sees Humanity
through the lens of something that
actually doesn't exist which is class
I don't think that people see themselves
as part of a class they might have said
it they might they might say in their
speech because it's a it's a shorthand
for if somebody is here somebody who's
there but actually conceptually there is
no such thing as as a defined class and
you can see it in elections I mean lots
of politicians make mistakes and a
mistake they make is that they assign
somebody's views about something on
their political uh on their supposedly
presuppose a class Consciousness and and
this presupposition leads them to to
making the wrong decisions or to be
taken by surprise because the
assumptions they made are not based on
anything observable but they're based on
their own delivery you could see that in
the US with the Democrats surprised that
the working class is no longer on the
side of the Democrats and then and of
course they're to blame because right
right yeah well you see this in Canada
if the if the populace was just as
enlightened as the leaders who were
working on their behalf they'd obviously
be be supportive let's say of Trudeau's
radically socialist policy yeah they're
not enlightened enough for that well no
of course because they've got they've
got real jobs and real jobs as we know I
I worked in a restaurant when I was a
kid that was run by a couple of small
businessmen a guy who I worked directly
for was named Scotty Kyle and Scotty was
a rough guy he was about 32 or 33 I was
about 14. and he'd had most of his teeth
knocked out in fights and he'd be an
alcoholic for years he quit drinking
about five years before I knew him
unbelievably funny person and very very
bright and I was working for the
Socialists in my town at that point when
I was 14 and they had a pretty good
small business policy at that point in
my Province Alberta there was one
socialist and like 200 conservatives
that was it and the Socialist was an old
labor leader and he was actually a
pretty good guy in any case and people
voted for him in this small town not
because he was a socialist but because
he was a good guy in any case the
Socialists the new Democratic party had
a pretty good small business policy and
so but the guy I worked for and the
owner of the restaurant who was also a
working-class guy they didn't have
anything to do with the socialists and I
asked Scotty one day I said why in the
world don't you and and uh Ken
support the NDP they have way better
small business policy and you're a small
business he said uh yeah but we don't
want to be a small business
said people vote their dreams not their
reality I thought that was so bloody
smart you know and I think that's and
that's part of the issue that's
problematic with regard to class
Consciousness is because a lot of people
who are in the lower strata let's say of
the socioeconomic hierarchy don't
identify to use that horrible word with
that strata they have aspirations and if
not for themselves for their children
and they would like to set up a world
where the successful can Thrive yeah
partly because they would like their
children to be successful and then so
that's a great reason I never forgot
that and then about the same time I've
been reading George Orwell and Orwell
talked about the Fabian types A lot even
though Orwell had some socialist uh
sympathies being what would you say
avatar for the working class the the the
the road to Wigan yes yes I must read he
said in that he said that he couldn't
understand the middle class you know uh
shoulder or yeah elbow patch wearing
socialists who identified with the
working class but was not certainly not
part of it his observation was part of
the reason that socialism failed to grip
the working classes because those
socialists didn't love the poor they
just hated the rich yeah and I also
think the working class has a real
Instinct for that working class but
that's you know it has an instinct for
that and distrusts that sentiment of
envy you know masquerading as compassion
for the poor yeah and that's a really
interesting one so
um the the interesting thing about the
dislike of the riches of course they are
themselves rich and there's a great
there's a great description in the book
when they start off uh um or the the
Fabian Society first meets about 15 or
20 people and the guy just notes that
there's only one guy who could feasibly
call himself working class right and he
was I always thought it was a guy called
Stan who went there by mistake who just
under it was a pastor and he thought
maybe there's some clients for me later
right right but the interesting thing is
they the one thing they despised in
particular was the landowning class
and so when I think
they were trying to do is to find a way
to become the new aristocracy with the
same Privileges and to find ways to be
permanently funded and that required the
the ability to find pockets of capital
and what's the best place to seek
permanent funding where that's the
government and so the interesting thing
is that they they did everything they
possibly could to to and you'll see in
the in the writing
the the aristocracy was was
part of where they came from very often
but they wanted to they wanted to be
able to be
uh in a position where they couldn't be
removed from earning good money
and at the same time they also wouldn't
have the uh the the
um the ties to the working population
that you need when you're a landowner
because of course when you're a
landowner you work in agriculture you
work with people who are dirty you've
got dirty fingernails and all sorts of
things like that so what they because
they're in touch with reality exactly
and so the the what's interesting about
the vocabulary used by uh the fabians is
extermination it's
um uh it's everything that has to do
with Commerce is evil and bad and dirty
and everything else and you can see the
language already being extreme that's
disgust language not fear language so if
you read I read a book called Hitler's
table talk and I had learned at that
point that there was a large connection
between certain forms of extreme
political views and the emotion of
disgust rather than fear and table talk
is a collection of Hitler's spontaneous
utterances at meal times Collective for
about four years and all of the
references to the people that he wanted
to exterminate are discussed language
not fear that's what George Rowell talks
about it's the he says yeah uh it's the
smell they smell yeah yeah right and as
a result which is very visceral yeah
it's it's it's the worst it's the worst
that you could possibly say right so
that's what he describes but um yes so
so Marx fits into this because like all
of these guys uh you're atomizing
Humanity in in in in artificial
um uh what's the word categories yeah
categories and I think that that's what
we're witnessing and then you put
Malthus in there that lays in Malthus
was the the reason why Malthus makes
sense is because he's the first one that
starts to go
for economic reasons in other words for
an abstraction yeah
um perhaps we should have few fewer
human beings right right but too many of
us and then the concept of a were a life
worth living in other words if you're
poor quite clearly your life is not
going to be fun right so in other words
rather than say that humanity is sacred
and the person who is born ought to be
able to live until his dying day
um and it might be tough but actually
um if he is the more of us there are uh
the the stronger more powerful where are
the more solutions we can create more
brains they are the more Dynamic Things
become
um he was he was one of the first ones
who just said well let them die
or that that will inevitably occur as
population exceeds it and it was proven
wrong all the time right continues he's
been continually wrong and yeah well the
way the the malthusian biologists deal
with that is they say well you just got
the time frame exactly yeah yeah that's
200 years of being wrong and so well no
it'll take 500 years but eventually
it'll happen but this this notion then
uh the the that we we hear more and more
often is that the world is overpopulated
yeah okay
so the the the the uh the corollary
there is there too many people and
what's what does that mean well we need
to have fewer and how do you have fewer
well we're working hard on that right
now exactly have we'll have what we will
create a Humane policy it's a little bit
like one flew of a Cuckoos and aspect
where where you take out the uh uh where
you just get
um
uh yeah well you just take out the the
brains and you you just um dismantle the
the guy because he's refusing to
refusing to accept what he was saying
but well I just did a criticism I wrote
it for the telegraph of a Deloitte memo
yeah that was published in May yeah you
read that the Deloitte Consultants
claimed well
we're in an ecological crisis and of
course that's of indeterminate magnitude
but it's an emergency crisis and it's
such an emergency that no measures are
too much and if we don't take the
measures things are going to be much
worse at some unspecified time in the
future according to our models and so
the solution to that right now is to get
everyone to tighten their belts not us
of course because we have ample girth
but all those without any apprehension
or with complete blindness to the fact
that if you take an economic hierarchy
there's always people at the bottom that
are barely holding on the poor that will
always be with you yes exactly and and
there's let's say several billion of
them in the world right now and then if
you add what to the top echelons is a
five percent burden let's say you take
out huge swaths of the people who are at
the bottom but if it's but if the old
notion is well we have to do that
because the Utopia won't arrive
if we don't and things will be worse
then of course you can justify that
continually and if it's also driven by
the ethos that well you know if those
people were as good in some intrinsic
sense as we were then they wouldn't be
in the position where they would be
dying as a consequence of our necessary
actions and I see all of that lurking
behind the fact that in the UK right now
your energy prices have already what
doubled tripled they're insane yeah yeah
and they're nowhere near as insane as
they're going to get yeah and so well
you know you should just tighten your
belt you don't need to drive you don't
need to heat your house Switzerland
turn your thermostat Beyond 19 degrees
Yeah three years in jail it's going to
be it yeah it's going to be a very cold
winter yes it certainly is cold dark and
hungry yeah and so so
um Malthus is essentially saying there's
a price to living you know so there's
the the the human being can be discarded
it's the the the the concept of
overpopulation becomes an academic
um topic and that's taken seriously so
it becomes ingrained right and then it's
a moral necessity to bring depopulation
about exactly and so we're hearing
people in positions of um you know of
power talking about the fact that we
need to retreat back to a world where we
had 500 million people I know I know
that's I mean that's 7.5 million billion
people that you're trying to get rid of
that's what they're trying to beat the
Communist record for extermination it's
insane and yet these people have and I
think the the reason why I think the
so let me just go through uh so do you
have any idea who came up with the 500
million figure uh well um I forgot her
name but it was during a w e f oh
there's a shark
yeah so they just threw that number up
well we think it's about 500 million but
maybe a billion I mean obviously 500
million difference it's it's always
people like them that will survive of
course I mean that's the it's well
that's what people think yeah of course
as we say the the the thing that we know
is that they're always wrong and the
reason why they're always wrong because
of the premise of the argument is not
based on observations it's based on
wishful thinking uh and so self-serving
narcissistic wishful thinking that comes
along with the privilege that's always
what criticized yeah it's really quite
something yeah so so
um yeah so so Malthus is very important
Keynes so Malthus is important because
he says too many human beings Keynes is
important because he's the leading
member of the British Eugenics Society
then Marx is important because he just
like um Keynes and and Malthus says that
um that people belong in boxes in other
words they're not humans they are what
we say they are not what they want what
the human being himself thinks he's
biologicalism right or religion of the
masses exactly and then you've got uh
Darwin that comes in
Darwin uh uh writes in particular about
race uh uh and there are some very
interesting quotes with him and uh and
parliamentarians where he explains
geopolitical changes including uh with
the Ottoman Empire uh through the lens
of race and the one of the the last
um sentence of uh descent his last book
is essentially I would rather be a um a
descendant from a monkey than a Savage
and so so the reason why these four
people matter is because
they are deeply rooted in our
educational framework
uh whether it's in Canada the US France
uh Germany these four characters
represent biology economics politics and
um what else uh sociology and so
for me that's really important because
that framework is essentially where most
of our leaders have been
uh have have grown up intellectually
uh and so
what's important about this is that they
we have to escape in my view or we have
to try and at least become really aware
of what these ideas were
in order for us to be able to extricate
to extricate ourselves and so one of the
this is the reason why I get very
uncomfortable and I have been it's a bit
again that glitch this sentence the
extremes meet in the middle for me is is
inelegant and it's inelegant because
extremes cannot meet in the middle it's
either science is right or politics is
right and if politics is driven by the
leaders we have now they're certainly
not right so extremes are what they are
in other words extremely hot extremely
cold extremely large extremely small
they can never meet by definition so why
is the issue of extreme and and the
middle relevant in in the course of the
conversation the reason why it's
important is because we have to be able
to understand the world around us and we
keep being shifted from we keep talking
about extreme right extreme left but
actually we need to understand that
there is no difference between one and
the other and that's the reason why this
framework intellectually I think is a is
a nice way of explaining it
the when is this proclivity for
centralization exactly the human beings
a small minority of people human beings
are uh you can jettison them they are
irrelevant class matters Race Matters or
uh your your your capabilities uh all of
this your humanity is completely
stripped right so actually what we see
when we think about this like a like a
stadium or an arena is that Adolf is
to Stalin like the bronze medalist is to
the gold medalist they are standing in
the same Arena competing in the same
sport facing in the same way and so what
they have is that they are all the
recipients whether it's Mussolini Lenin
Stalin uh Paul pot and all these guys
have all the same ideas so it's that
field that is so important in my view
and what's the what what is
the extreme opposite of these views yeah
right that is the question it's love
your neighbor unless you love yourself I
thought about it as the spirit of
playful reciprocity
exactly it's love your neighbors you
love yourself it's uh we are we are made
in the the image of God yeah reciprocity
this is what we all this is what we've
been talking about action voluntary
Association absolutely yeah and so so
there is an extreme but the extreme is
not either left or right the the the we
have to so if what I'm saying makes
sense it's a bit long-winded I know but
it's because you know sometimes we have
to unpack certain ideas and everything
else I think the important thing there
is to realize that
whether the totalitarians themselves or
operate under the same presumptions
that's what we're facing that's what
we're facing and Technology gives them a
power they didn't have before but there
is hope as there always is the the hope
is that we ReDiscover our humanity and
the and there is a body of text that
says just that it's just that we need to
ReDiscover it and we need to be very
clear about the roots of um
uh of uh of these these ideologies well
I've been talking today to Mr ellick's
story about well his personal
experiences on the familiar front and
the the rabbit hole let's say that that
led him down morally
with in relationship to his wife and
also intellectually and we've attempted
as a consequence of this conversation to
draw parallels both biographical and
conceptual between what he stumbled
across or what was placed in front of
him
um in in the what would you say in the
form of a challenge and responsibility
that he accepted and some Visions he had
about the
part of the underlying Spirit
pathological Spirit of the totalitarian
impulses of the present age and so thank
you very much for speaking with me and
also for providing these readings I will
make a list of the books that we
discussed fabianism and the Empire and
Darwin's descent as well as John Maynard
Keane's uh biography I'll put those in
the links and thank you to all who are
watching and listening Sadowski is the
author ah lord sidelski of the of the
Keynes and sadelski uh you're putting me
on the spot no that's okay that's okay
okay that's fine we'll put in the link
well so thank you very much it's been a
pleasure speaking with you thank you
very much
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com